BIANCA
Gwenevere Abriel: Hi.
Bianca: Hello.
Hello.
Bianca: Sorry, I was a little lost. I woke up and I was like, do I do the virtual clinic or do I log in quickly. I was like,
Bianca: And then I finally went into the virtual clinic.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, we're okay. We're okay. I ended up taking an extra few minutes. There was a lot of people in group just now. So I kind of took me so it was the timing seemed to work out.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. Alright, so what do you have going on over there. Are you having a little breakfast What is that you waking up.
Bianca: Yeah, yes I am eating some cereal.
Gwenevere Abriel: While you're doing that, I'm going to open up a no.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm I see
Bianca: Any
Gwenevere Abriel: Major changes.
Bianca: In your
Life right now.
Bianca: No. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, I just I just remembered something you said it just struck me, I just remember, I was thinking about that activity.
Gwenevere Abriel: Around you know volunteering.
Gwenevere Abriel: And
Gwenevere Abriel: And I was like, I remember you saying something like
Gwenevere Abriel: I correct me if I'm wrong by swear it was like
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't want to meet people.
Bianca: A YC that for the friends for friends.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is it. Tell me more about that.
Bianca: Ah, not that I don't want to meet him. I just not interested, like in in people's drama or, you know, just I have enough with my life that I can't deal with anybody else's life right now.
Bianca: And I haven't had friends in a long time. Like I
Bianca: Like I have but i i'm not in a few years, like I just haven't it or not. Those kinds of friendships actually those friendships are more like a, you know, with the you seeing in the using and stuff so
Bianca: I don't have any like friend moms like you know that are dedicated like I have to my family and stuff so I haven't met people like that yet.
Bianca: And I just moved from January to Albuquerque, a year and a half ago as well so
Gwenevere Abriel: What friends can be kind of cool because sometimes our stressors Bianca can be with our husband, it can be with our right, our mom or dad, they can be with our family and it's nice to be able to get perspective and kind of vent even a little bit. Some people get different perspective.
Gwenevere Abriel: And but I hear you. I remember because right I had said, Well, does this seem like a motivator, or does this not seem like a motivator and making friends, for example, is not a motivator for you.
Bianca: Yeah, yeah. Well, usually my stressful times I like to stick to myself or get a break from them, like the kids has been and I will go do like were shopping. My Therapy shopping retail therapy.
Gwenevere Abriel: Therapy.
Bianca: That's what I like to do watch you, I got you now.
Gwenevere Abriel: Does that come from.
Gwenevere Abriel: Like a place of betrayal, like there was a group of people and they teased you they wrong do in some way. Does it come from that kind of history or you've always been someone that sort of refuels quietly on her own.
Bianca: Yeah, no. Uh, no, it's not from friends at all. Yeah, it's just I guess it's just a
Bianca: Mechanism. I don't know my own since like I don't have friends. I mean, my friends were not good influences back then, they were all because we were using together. Those are the friends.
Bianca: Like I said, I don't have friend moms that are so bird dedicated phone, you know, stuff like that. And we'll have that. And I never had that it's always been the other stuff. So I guess I just built a thing on my own on my own.
Gwenevere Abriel: And what what might be something that would motivate you, like if you were to, I know you won't do it now because of the coronavirus I remember that part two. But, um, if you were to volunteer like of all the list of seven things. Was there one that you thought
Gwenevere Abriel: Reason.
Bianca: Um,
Bianca: Well, I'm not sure, but maybe maybe uh maybe like just, um, those stories like like Goodwill's and stuff like that.
Bianca: But really I haven't thought about it, to be honest.
Bianca: Other than that, that's like all that came to my mind. But other than that, I don't know what else I could do
Okay.
Bianca: And I would say like you know the the homes elder homes, but then they're more prone to coronavirus oh
Bianca: Was that
Gwenevere Abriel: It really is, you know, they're already so vulnerable or thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's just see.
Gwenevere Abriel: Learn to cope and manage feeling
Manage feelings and life without prescriptions. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's one of your goals. That's a big one, too. That's an important one. Now that's the core of everything that everybody's up here. Right. It's learning how to cope without
Bianca: Substance, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And has it been so long.
Gwenevere Abriel: what that's like.
Bianca: Yeah.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe you were a teenager and
Gwenevere Abriel: We started with
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe, and it's been so long forgotten kind of who you are around feelings.
Bianca: Maybe possibly
Bianca: Thought about it.
Bianca: Or maybe I just have to realize because I haven't really thought to that. But, you know, it could be possible. I'm not sure I haven't really looked at myself like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you've kept yourself so busy.
Gwenevere Abriel: Time for self reflection.
Bianca: Yeah, sure.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, do you have an older child that would allow you to
Gwenevere Abriel: Go and have some privacy.
Bianca: And be really hard to be
Bianca: Sorry, you're like cutting out a little bit.
Gwenevere Abriel: I was wondering if you could go somewhere.
Bianca: Oh, is it is it loud. Okay. Sorry, I just, I usually go to my restroom, but I need to go get a light bulb. So it was like a little arm was a little dark, but let's see, I do have a lot in there, but I need a new light bulb. And that's usually where I go. Okay.
Bianca: That's like the quiet place cuz
Bianca: All right, let's see.
Bianca: Alrighty.
Bianca: I didn't realize how loud in the background. I got I got there.
Gwenevere Abriel: Your use you're used to so much
Bianca: Yeah, yeah. I guess you're right. Excuse me.
Bianca: Yeah, I guess you're right that I don't even. I guess I block out a lot of steps. That's a lot of moms do you block them out sometimes
Gwenevere Abriel: Have you noticed that you had a chance to use the belly breathing.
Bianca: Yeah, I've been using it every week. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Tell me a story of a time you used it and what it was like for you.
Bianca: Um, well, the other day, they might my husband and my daughter both like woke up throwing up in the middle of the night.
Bianca: And I mean she couldn't go to school. So it was that morning it was at early is like four or five in the morning when they start throwing up
Bianca: And then we try to go to bed a little bit more because they were exactly. Well, when I woke up, I felt like so stressed over it and sad and feel so well. So I did the breathing before we left to school. Wow. And
Gwenevere Abriel: What was the outcome of that.
Bianca: I helped out a lot. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And did you notice that you did it. You cycled through how many times two times three times five times, how many do you think
Bianca: It was like five times. Okay.
Bianca: It was enough.
Gwenevere Abriel: Exactly and
Gwenevere Abriel: Afterwards, maybe, where's your brain able to work a little better. We were more patient able to solve whatever's going on.
Bianca: Yeah, I was definitely relaxed me quickly like I yeah and I was able to think and, you know, the stress level went down.
Gwenevere Abriel: What you did is what we call a bottom up intervention, right, the visceral up versus changing your thinking, which is a really useful one to
Gwenevere Abriel: I'd like to teach you another bottom up intervention. Before we get into some of the cognitive ones because these are so convenient and they work so far.
Gwenevere Abriel: Can I teach you one more.
Sure.
Gwenevere Abriel: This one is
Gwenevere Abriel: Sometimes you guys forget this one.
Gwenevere Abriel: I should like it.
Gwenevere Abriel: This one is called grounding in the five senses. I call it that. Anyway, it comes out in this model called dialectical behavior therapy and
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to explain it. I'm going to show a little poster and we'll
Gwenevere Abriel: Um,
Gwenevere Abriel: And then like everything you personalize it you you do your own kind of thing to it and like I have the way this poster is that I'm going to share with you.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't even do it this way. I kind of make it my own. But first, give it a try. Just the way I'm going to kind of instruct it just to see if you like it, and then you can kind of modify it and do it do it your own kind of style.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I see if I can find it. Hold on to nose can do that, let me just write crowned king. There it is. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's pretty much what what you think it's grounding and the five senses mean side from the six cents, which
Gwenevere Abriel: Not everybody's got that one.
Gwenevere Abriel: So grounding in the five senses, is this. It's basically when we're in a stress thought, let's say,
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh my goodness, I have two children sick. I need to do this. And now I have all these
Gwenevere Abriel: Things to do. I'm feeling helpless. I'm feeling stress. You can use this
Bianca: Field.
Gwenevere Abriel: Around it again. And this is kind of what it would look like you would around you. So right now you have some items in your bathroom right you have toothbrush. She might have a hairbrush. She might have. So washcloth you probably have some things on the counter. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Mm hmm. And she grabbed one of them.
Bianca: Anything.
Gwenevere Abriel: The more
Gwenevere Abriel: kind of funky almost better which is which.
Bianca: Oh, I got my first solid liquid glass.
Gwenevere Abriel: Sounds good. I like it. So I'm going to show you how I do it. And then maybe we'll use that item when you do it. Okay. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: This is what it basically is
Gwenevere Abriel: But notice poster says when we want to do this grounding exercise and grounding means getting back in your body. We're not up in our head. We're not completely hijacked by our emotions.
Gwenevere Abriel: This is an exercise that can get you just like the breathing back into your body and help you feel calm. So you look around, just as you did you pick up that I am using stare at it and you use adjectives.
Bianca: Call it
Bianca: Oil basically
Gwenevere Abriel: The things that you see, I'm going to do for you here. Um,
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, first, I'm just going to say where you're reading here. So it's going to be five things you see four things you feel with your
Gwenevere Abriel: Fingers three things that you hear with your ears.
Gwenevere Abriel: Things you smell. One thing you taste.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, does that make sense. Like, that's what we'll do. We'll be saying
Bianca: Five things
Gwenevere Abriel: We see with our eyes. We're not going to label it. We're not going to call it pin. That's an interpretation. We're going to call it black move
Gwenevere Abriel: Shiny you see the difference.
Bianca: Mm hmm.
Gwenevere Abriel: Our creativity stops when we call it a label pen.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's not what this is for. We've got to actually not label it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Give it more time the data coming through our eyes. So I'm going to stop sharing here so you can actually see what I'm doing. Okay.
Or yeah
Gwenevere Abriel: I do already. I depart from the structure of five I do as many as I possibly can. I think it works better because it's supposed to get you out of your head, get your mind off of whatever negative loop as well. I think you should do many as you possibly can. So it would look like the
Gwenevere Abriel: Barclay shiny black silver cookie jack
Gwenevere Abriel: Flick
Gwenevere Abriel: Angle the bra odd shape.
Gwenevere Abriel: Then black
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, but I didn't call it
Gwenevere Abriel: A rock right
Gwenevere Abriel: I took I use
Gwenevere Abriel: Words to label what coming through my eyes everything I possibly could went from shiny to sharp pointy to like I just try really hard to come up with as many words as I possibly could, for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Men, you're going to do what something feels
With your fingers.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, and then you'll say, oh, you'll be like,
Gwenevere Abriel: That shark.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's pointing. It's rough round.
Gwenevere Abriel: Ready. Okay. So then you'll be doing
Gwenevere Abriel: Magic, just as you can for a tactile experience you've got a fuzzy robe, what I might do with you is when you do your part.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll have you put your finger right where the the seam is you know where you've got, uh huh. We've got the seam on your robe, because there's going to be where the stitching is at both Stephen
Gwenevere Abriel: Fuzzy then stitch going to be paying attention to. Oh, I wonder
Gwenevere Abriel: How many
Gwenevere Abriel: Five. And there's another stitch and then there's, it's going to be literally focusing only on the tactile
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, and then you'll do, what am I hearing. I hear some some sweet zoom or I can hear. I can hear my husband out there talking to the kids who I just heard my little boy.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, I heard this over to client metal
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, I can keep my water dripping. Oh, I can hear I shuffled my feet, you're going to want to tune into only
Bianca: Of hearing
Gwenevere Abriel: And then you'll go to smell. Hopefully that bathroom doesn't smell bad.
Bianca: Actually, I just cleaned
Gwenevere Abriel: So you might register whatever some funds all or chloride. Okay so register that or maybe you'll catch a hint of lime or lemon or maybe lavender or something. Right. And sometimes if we really
Gwenevere Abriel: We really need to Otter knows sense
Bianca: We're going to pull up our arms.
Gwenevere Abriel: And we're going to have probably different smells here too, because we make the lotion, we may have a so we may have a perfume on here. And then we have us right my son just smells like me.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then takes
Gwenevere Abriel: I have a little bit of my salad dressing. So on my tongue.
Gwenevere Abriel: Kind of taste the raspberries will dry it raspberries.
Gwenevere Abriel: There's not much that comes from taste. I've noticed. Okay, so I gave you an example.
Gwenevere Abriel: Of what this, it'll look like. So I want you to take your actually I'm going to have that light and that'll be your the thing you're going to use for tactile, I want you to do as many adjectives or you can put something on the screen. Okay, you're just going to put that down from
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to use adjectives just what you see not labeling it
Bianca: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Holler angles shades curves, anything you can. Okay, as many as you can go.
Bianca: Okay, it's a gold.
Bianca: It has good color gold as a color. Why is little plastic key appear
Bianca: Feel smooth.
Gwenevere Abriel: Know,
Gwenevere Abriel: Where to start our. Let me see both your hands.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so you're going to be doing data coming through what you see with your eyes and you're going to be dealing with the object that I'm showing you
Bianca: Ready.
Gwenevere Abriel: Here we go. I know what you're doing. You're doing a great job with your item we're gonna use that money for feel ready
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, go.
Bianca: Silver grace moves it looks a little bumpy in the middle.
Bianca: As lay eggs.
Bianca: I
Bianca: Don't know it just
Bianca: Looks a little bumpy in the back.
Gwenevere Abriel: You did great.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, and now take your little bottle, close your eyes and just describe what you feel from a tactile perspective.
Okay.
Bianca: Well, I will put rubber
Bianca: I sell middle class.
Bianca: And smooth a glass. This little cold metal is blues is the
Gwenevere Abriel: Rubber squishy.
Bianca: Question. Yes.
Bianca: And that's it. There's pretty much, not much to it.
Gwenevere Abriel: So the metal might have felt cooler than the squishy part, you might have noticed
Gwenevere Abriel: And on the bottom.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is there.
Gwenevere Abriel: On the bottom, you might you might do this like oh circle.
Gwenevere Abriel: Not as smooth, a little rougher bumps you might feel tiny little differences, just give yourself permission to do that because the more you can come up with a better work.
Bianca: Okay. The bottom feels
Bianca: Like lettering.
Bianca: Does fail obviously circle. There is another letter at the bottom.
Bianca: It does feel smooth. It does feel called THIS FEELS COLD AND SMOOTH AS WELL. It feels more slippery than like glass these bills squishy and warmer.
Bianca: Circle.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's fantastic, fantastic. All right, let's do another sense now. Tune in less to a tactile less two eyes. And now let's use those ears.
Bianca: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: What do you notice in the room, and then move your awareness out into the home and then all the way outside, you can
Bianca: Well i feel i mean i hear
Bianca: little dots of water dripping for my shower.
Bianca: Right now.
Bianca: I have seems quiet and nobody's talking right now.
Bianca: That is a miracle.
Gwenevere Abriel: Say. Has that ever happened.
Bianca: At the time when you tell me to hear something.
Bianca: Yeah, they see quiet now they're talking, but that was a quick nice second silence.
Gwenevere Abriel: Like what are people. Okay. Did you have a wave of panic like somebody hurt.
Bianca: No, I just thought maybe they're all busy entertained. I don't know.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so go back to hearing. So we've heard
Bianca: Yeah, that's my baby knocking at my door.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's a baby. Baby voice. KNOCKING What else
Bianca: Are crawling way.
Bianca: And
Bianca: Here's a
Bianca: Here's a door open.
Bianca: And I hear the baby yelling
Gwenevere Abriel: Beautiful now smell describe, if you can, what well
Bianca: Well, it smells like that Lysol
Bianca: wipes season and disinfecting spray sounds like mango. He smells good.
Bianca: And
Gwenevere Abriel: We got going on there.
Bianca: Well as it takes like on
Bianca: The Honey Nut Cheerios. That ain't
Bianca: Cool.
Gwenevere Abriel: So can you picture.
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe you're in a discussion with someone maybe there's a disagreement. Maybe you're having a reaction to some feeling strongly about something you don't really like how it's going
Gwenevere Abriel: And you want to be able to remember something you want to be able to perform in a particular way. This exercise is also
Gwenevere Abriel: We were doing the diet for matic breathing part
Gwenevere Abriel: And did you notice that you were really
Gwenevere Abriel: Really trying to give me what I was asking, can I give her some words.
Bianca: Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's what
Gwenevere Abriel: It does. It gets you out of thoughts.
Gwenevere Abriel: Worried worried. What if what
Gwenevere Abriel: if, what if, what if something about the future or some people they spend more time thinking about the past intrusive and it's really uncomfortable. Nice.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's good for either one to get you back in your body.
Gwenevere Abriel: When you want to break from it, you just
Gwenevere Abriel: So, okay. So let's add this to rehearsal, if you can, if you run across some
Bianca: Kind of want to feel a little different.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's say the kids bathtub and they're slipping around and they're not listening to you and
Bianca: safety zone. You don't want the kids to get hurt.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you want to keep your patience. But you're noticing you're running a little short on it.
Bianca: Yeah, I will.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you know the neat thing about these kinds of things is
Gwenevere Abriel: Although I just close my eyes just now, you don't have to. And no one even has to know that you're doing.
Gwenevere Abriel: Carry
Gwenevere Abriel: Something in your pocket.
Gwenevere Abriel: That can help you right to sort of focus.
Bianca: Focus your attention.
here for a second.
Gwenevere Abriel: Frustrated can just sort of feel that little pebble that's in your in your pocket in your robe and just kind of focus on him for a second. He gives your brain a break even for those fractions of a second. We need those reprieves because you've got stimulation coming at you a lot.
Gwenevere Abriel: So we need a little break.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes to got to have. I'm so glad
Gwenevere Abriel: I find these two are incredibly helpful.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now,
Bianca: Has been the first thing you taught me was how it's been helpful. Really, so I'm sure this will be too and
Bianca: It's good. I'm glad that you've taught me these because it has helped a lot. Thank you.
Thank you. Welcome.
Gwenevere Abriel: Tell me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Another time when maybe it's helped on an interpersonal level. A lot of times people get are angry as to the people that love us and who we love has it come up around that.
Bianca: Can be getting angry. Yes. Like, I tried. He's getting angry.
Bianca: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Tell me a story, maybe has happened.
Bianca: Oh, let's see.
Bianca: Well, I got angry for something every time I happens. I don't know why I can't remember exactly pinpoint it. It's where is that weird
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't know. Um, it could be really adaptive Bianca because plenty of people
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold on to anger.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. And it gets them sick, they, they get kidney stones, they get sort of sick inside from holding on to all that resentment, anger. So if you say, is that good. I don't know. Is it working for you. Is it adaptive for you.
Bianca: Well, I don't know. I mean, I, yeah, I guess I just let go of it so quickly that I don't even remember like it seems like it was just like a petty thing that I don't even remember or care to remember what the argument was about. It's so weird. I don't
Bianca: I answered. But yeah, I had done it with with with an argument over after the argument I have calmed down, and it's helped me to get like call me collective you know after our Ewing
Gwenevere Abriel: Sometimes arguments are about things that we don't forget sometimes they're about spouses sometimes have different belief systems about big issues like parenting nutrition sports academics.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right rest relaxation hard work versus, you know there's there's big things sometimes that come up. Um, what are some big ones that happened between you and your sweetheart.
Bianca: Um,
Bianca: I think
Bianca: Shoe
Bianca: Dahlia can't think when it comes through it. I know we have them definitely have I, I'm trying to think about what what it was about the kids, but I don't remember.
Bianca: I don't know. I guess I should have bad memory. I don't know what it is that I just can't think of exactly what we were what he was mad about or he had told me something. Something I felt like going and asking him what it was, but I don't know if I have bad memory. I don't, I can't think.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now, well, I know. So is that something new work. People are saying, Hey, your, your memory is your affections short term memory stuff going on is that kind of new for you.
Bianca: Oh,
Bianca: No, no, it's just, every time you asked me, I can't think of stuff like I i guess i ever get asked it that much. I don't know, maybe gets pushed to the back. I don't know.
Bianca: It's weird. Now that I just been talking to you lately. It seems like I can't think of a story to tell.
Bianca: And it happens daily and you know I just
Bianca: I mean, you know, something happens with me every day.
Bianca: Oh man, I'm sorry.
Gwenevere Abriel: And there's nothing to apologize.
Gwenevere Abriel: Why was
Gwenevere Abriel: She wanted to work on was
Gwenevere Abriel: cope and manage feelings. Because right now, what I'm when I'm investigating a little bit. I'm asking some questions about feelings. You don't seem to sit with very long. You don't hold on to.
Bianca: It doesn't matter.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is that a fair assessment.
Bianca: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Does anyone have to hold on.
Bianca: For longer
Bianca: Mm hmm. He does. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Show his anger.
Bianca: A by being mad or talking or saying whatever he fails or sometimes he'll yeah and that's when it gets worse when he else. So that's why I tell them. Don't yell just talk
Bianca: Because then you'll start up a brutal thing. You know, it's the way it's not what you say it's like how you say, I just, I'm just to say, call me whenever you feel just say commonly like know we could talk about it but doesn't always work. I thought
Bianca: Yeah, but he will. He will be like, Oh, I'm just gonna let it go. I don't care. But when the argument comes up and
Bianca: He'll talk about whatever we're arguing and then bring up whatever he was mad about in the past. And I'm like, I was gone. So yeah, that's how I know he holds on to his, his anger. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so yeah I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: But your style is
Gwenevere Abriel: You're not getting wounded by it. The particular way that he communicates, it's not really sticking with you it's not hurting you. It's not something that
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to stop trusting him. It's not to that degree. Is that right,
Bianca: Yeah, right. Yeah.
You got it.
Already
When we got here.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's take a look at your relapse prevention plan that's something obviously that we're building throughout. I'm going to add
Gwenevere Abriel: healthy coping skills. I'm just going to put the belly breathing there and the grounding and the five senses.
Grounding
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's talk a little bit about self soothing and self care behaviors. So oftentimes with busy parents they forget about doing pleasurable happy fun on the type of activities.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I know yours is makeup, that's one thing you kind of enjoy
Gwenevere Abriel: Fun things are things that feel good include me. What years off and I'll write them down.
Bianca: Because
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't have anything in here, actually. All right. Well, I don't know. Do you do that. Do you ever just for fun to feel good.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or just say horny.
Gwenevere Abriel: And nobody comes in the bathroom or wherever you keep your makeup and just do a full
Gwenevere Abriel: Makeup you put makeup on a kid or your husband or somebody. I mean, you ever do that as a
Bianca: Yes, I have. Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Like, well, should I call it self, which I
Bianca: Know,
Bianca: Like it like me like I was self care or fine or what do you want to title that you need.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, I
Bianca: Oh, well I guess it's more like for fun.
Bianca: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: I put I put up, but I was hoping maybe you could get a better phrase for me.
Oh,
Bianca: Yeah, I know. I don't have one.
Gwenevere Abriel: You make up
Gwenevere Abriel: So yeah, that's fine. Um, and do you ever take a bath. Do you ever take time and
Gwenevere Abriel: Get a special oil or lotion.
Gwenevere Abriel: Put on or some other things that
Gwenevere Abriel: Notice how I was teaching you some things to help sort of calm the body, bring the heart rate down. These are things that just pure and simple. It just feel good and they're enjoyable, can we add to the list. A little bit. What would be something that you
Bianca: Well, every time I shower. I stay in the shower for at least an hour and a half, sometimes even two hours and you know shaving and this, you know, all of that. Yeah, so I'm always the one that takes a long time to shower.
Gwenevere Abriel: We got long to our show. Yes. Yes. Yes. Very nice. So you're able to carve out some me time in the shower.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes. Everybody kind of knows that. Right.
Bianca: Yes, and I bring my phone. I pull my Direct TV on my phone, watch something and I'm showery
Bianca: Yeah, I haven't
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, all right, I got you. Oh, good. We found another one. I hadn't thought about that.
All right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And now I know we were talking a little bit about people.
Gwenevere Abriel: A lot of the people that you were hanging out with have gone. By the way, because they're continuing to use or maybe they were negative influence and you've parted ways over the years.
Gwenevere Abriel: But when you look at the landscape, your environment of people that you can
Gwenevere Abriel: Call if you ever were in either emotional distress needed to then
Gwenevere Abriel: Or you were struggling
Gwenevere Abriel: Think about
Gwenevere Abriel: Using most people it's just emotional and really sad, angry, and I want to talk to somebody, because we can feel good, just like someone getting it off our chest. I don't have any one for people. I can call
Gwenevere Abriel: Text email.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is there anyone it that if
Gwenevere Abriel: You could reach out to them and they would really hear you. They wouldn't judge you. They wouldn't lecture you they wouldn't should, you should do it this way, really just little song.
Bianca: Yeah.
Bianca: My mom.
Bianca: Yeah yeah
Bianca: Yeah, she didn't have to text, she does. Listen, she gives good advice and she doesn't judge me time she's always been no real calm.
Gwenevere Abriel: This is your first right this is the first time you're you're doing therapy.
Bianca: Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Aside from group that group thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: So there is
Gwenevere Abriel: A lot of I'm noticing.
Gwenevere Abriel: Need
To just
Gwenevere Abriel: Share a bunch of stuff I've noticed some people do some people. You just talk about the pressures from work and the pressures from kids the pressures from their spouse their parents.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. The some issues around substance use maybe really want to get this particular education or whatever it is I'm noticing your style is is a little slower.
Bianca: A little
Gwenevere Abriel: slower pace.
Oh,
Bianca: Is that what does that mean good or bad or does that mean
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't think in good and bad and things like that. Um, it's an observation, but I guess what I'm wondering is,
Gwenevere Abriel: Is it on the outside, but on the inside, you have things that you do want to talk
Bianca: Yeah, no. Uh, I think I've been able to be honest with you. And I feel like I could talk to you is, whenever you ask me.
Bianca: Yeah, I don't think that I am holding anything back though I tried. I just those like
Bianca: Like I guess those arguments I can't really pinpoint what the argument was about. That's why I feel like they're so petty that I just
Bianca: Don't care about it, I guess. I don't know. I've gotten to that point where before when we used to argue they used to be a big deal. And I used to be really sad. And you know, I would feel like, oh my gosh.
Bianca: But now we already used to each other and how he works or how I work that it's like okay, whatever. It's like nothing because we already know. That's how they are. That's how they express themselves.
Bianca: That it's I it doesn't seem like it's a big issues because I'm not like oh my gosh so worried about it. You know when you're worried about are you may or you need to resolve it. It's not like that. So I don't know. That's the only thing I can. But yeah, no, no.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So which which emotions. Would you say when you were saying, I need to learn how to cope. Right. Which ones are you talking about that seem like they're more difficult to cope with and others.
Bianca: I'm
Bianca: Just being angry, I guess, or or being frustrated or the overwhelming. Now it's hard. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And this that frequently happened around child care or and other times.
Bianca: It just happens daily because I go through so much with kids and this and that, or whatever it is, or, you know, car issues or it got to go to hospital. It just seems like I i don't know why. Actually, your, your breathing has helped me to go through that but
Bianca: I don't like to be angry, though I don't like to be overwhelmed and
Bianca: So I want to be able to cope with that.
Bianca: I mean especially going through a hectic life like we it's hard, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: How now, the way you present in here, of course, everybody looks sort of calm and relaxed in here when they're talking with me. But the way a typical day looks like you say, angry, how often do you find yourself getting angry. In a typical day.
Bianca: Probably a couple times.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, how do you express it.
Bianca: Oh, it's talking
Bianca: I'll be like, you're doing this and this and I don't like it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so your example of getting angry is I told you I don't like like that.
Bianca: Yeah, yeah. But if they keep doing I do get mad and I'll be like, I'm like, you know, blow up. And then I then I'll feel bad. After and then I'll apologize to them.
Bianca: And I just took kids is to him to or to anybody but in public. I don't like that. I don't
Bianca: Like you somebody strangers getting you mad. I'm just like walk away from it because you know some people tell off strangers and stuff like or are the active in public. No, no, we don't do that in public.
Gwenevere Abriel: And how were you raised. What was the family environment. What was the belief system around anger.
Bianca: Ah,
Bianca: Well, my mom has never really been like angry time she never like really gal. She never spanked it or anything like that. She was always like really calm like
Bianca: That no i don't know i don't know how to answer that. No, no.
Gwenevere Abriel: You did. You said what you remember it is your mom was not yelling said she was calm.
Gwenevere Abriel: Where they're trying a different approach.
Gwenevere Abriel: Was needed when you are maybe a teenager or something.
Bianca: Well, when I was a teenager, we really, I don't know, we really didn't get along that well it wasn't that great. As I was a child that I think I was just like a bad teenager.
Gwenevere Abriel: What makes you think you were wrong.
Bianca: Well, I see the difference. A house you like raised me to my little brothers, so it's it's a lot different, like now she well they're they're boys, too, but I don't know if that makes a difference, but
Bianca: I don't know. I guess we I rebelled a lot
Bianca: And everything she didn't allow me to do like they are able to do
Gwenevere Abriel: What we
Bianca: Thought was back then. I'm sorry.
Gwenevere Abriel: You rebelling against
Bianca: I guess just not be able to do anything like like there was stuff that I wasn't able to do, or I had to
Bianca: Yeah, no, I don't know, just stuff like that. Like I said, like, like, like my brothers, what they do now, like me, bringing friends over. I couldn't do that. But he has like girls over and he's a boy and or he was able to drive at this age, and I was a so it's different.
Gwenevere Abriel: And how is it that your fan made those decisions. How did, how was that decided on that your brothers could have girls over and can drive and you could not. How was that decided
Bianca: I have no idea. I just think that I was her first child. So maybe she didn't know how to do with it, I guess, or I don't know. And maybe she learned over the years. But I don't know how it was decided how she decided on that.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you're you're older than your brothers.
Bianca: Oh yeah. My brother is
Bianca: 1930
Bianca: Have another sister to but me and her group together and we're five years apart so
Bianca: So me and her went to the same treatment than what they are going through. They have a more lenient or they could do whatever they want, pretty much in ours it like we couldn't even shave our lakes at 50 you know it was a lot different.
Gwenevere Abriel: So it's interesting, though you labeled yourself as a bad teenager.
Gwenevere Abriel: The way you're planning, you and your husband.
Gwenevere Abriel: This name a minute ago, a motto.
Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: The way you're going to raise your kids when they're teenagers, how would you approach it.
Bianca: Well, I definitely don't want to be like her like Raza now I do have a teenager and what she's a preteen and
Bianca: Oh, and my mom and we do talk we like I talked to her and she tells me everything that goes on at school what kids are sitting there, smoking it and you know I just tried to be open with her and, you know, tell her you know you could talk to me, you know, to be scared.
Bianca: And obviously I want her to know that she can make her own decisions and I try to help her guide her through those. I tell you what, you cannot
Bianca: Do this and this, and I think this is going to happen, like you're going to have consequences for what you do. And she is. She's very honest and open with me and that's what I want to be able to guide her as a teenager, because I don't think I had that
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you just had. These are the rules and you just rebelled against them, didn't have the guide.
Bianca: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, you're offering that so you're someone who can listen and then
Gwenevere Abriel: Just my next client isn't just here yet just curious what what might be a recent piece of guidance offered to she Hello, the shoe.
Bianca: Yes, she's 12 should be 13 out in July. So, yeah, yeah. Well, well, I kept what kind of advice I give you here is it was too much.
Bianca: Guidance. Oh, what kind of guidance. Well, I, I talked to her about like the boys and the drugs and pitching and you know friends that she hangs out with
Bianca: So, because that's all that's going on right now and as Sabbath graders, you know this. There's so much stuff going on in middle school. It's crazy, like
Bianca: It's a little scary, but I just do that stuff like, you know, I'm definitely I tell her, like, you know, you're gonna like this boy. For now, but you're not gonna like forever. He's not the one you know
Bianca: And then you know about these drugs and fakes that are going around right now. I just tell her that there is not worth it. Really it's you know and and she's also seen
Bianca: Like you know obviously that kids are not dumb and they see what us parents have gone through. She knows exactly like what I've gone through and
Bianca: About you know substance and stuff. And I tell her. That's just, you don't want to end up like that. Like, you want to do better for yourself. So I tried to motivate her to do better for
Bianca: Them to be, you know, like me, like I want her to be 10 times better. And, you know, try to get to college and make career. I tell her, don't get married to after you have all that stuff.
Bianca: And then when you're ready, you know, just get yourself stable in life before, but I know I always does happen, but I just tried to talk to her as much as possible. No child tell her what could happen. She's seen it, though, do
All right.
Gwenevere Abriel: What piece of guidance would you have liked to have had when you were maybe 12 or 13
Bianca: All that. Yeah, yeah.
Someone
Gwenevere Abriel: Tell me, what would be something for mom maybe could have told you
Bianca: A little
Bianca: Um, well, you know, if we would have talked about drugs or say um you know
Bianca: Just everything that that teenagers need to know
Gwenevere Abriel: But none of those things were normalized, those weren't conversations that that people talked about
Bianca: No, no.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, you're really making a difference when you're doing this this family quite differently.
Bianca: My Blab
Gwenevere Abriel: My invitation to you.
Gwenevere Abriel: If you have any time for reflection, you know, in this coming week it would be
Gwenevere Abriel: Not only mom's experience of those things.
Gwenevere Abriel: But a skill that would have been nice.
Gwenevere Abriel: Back then, right.
Gwenevere Abriel: She could have bought you that she could have said actually younger, you may not know that you can do this. But you can do this and you're about to run into a, b, and c. And you know what you can do this.
Because I've
Gwenevere Abriel: Done age 13 before when you're 1212 when you're a woman. I mean, there's certain things we don't know until we know
Gwenevere Abriel: What we can do is give a little heads up to remind children about the skills that they have about maybe looking ahead if you heard someone say
This
Gwenevere Abriel: Is what you can solve instead of
Gwenevere Abriel: what everybody else is doing.
Bianca: Right. Right. Yeah, I was just going
Gwenevere Abriel: To think about what we've just spent some time maybe over the coming week if you remember to maybe do some
Gwenevere Abriel: Jot something down around what it would have been nice that your mom had asked you to do, or that a skill that you would
Gwenevere Abriel: And for you specifically a nice around the concept of feelings, emotions, because that's kind of one of your goals is to kind of maybe learn more about that. So, so ask yourself, maybe a wonder what nine have shown me taught me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Around my feeling
Gwenevere Abriel: As a teenager.
Gwenevere Abriel: And see what comes up. I don't already have an answer. Let's see what
Bianca: Was
Gwenevere Abriel: He doing some writing you have a free. Second, you know, take 20 minutes shorter your shower and do a little scribbling
Bianca: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm just playing with you.
Gwenevere Abriel: I wouldn't want it from them shower shower sounds amazing.
Bianca: Let's get
Gwenevere Abriel: Time to meet
Gwenevere Abriel: And I look forward to hearing your
Chance to practice.
Bianca: And
Gwenevere Abriel: Alright, so for now.
Stick with this.
Did we do this.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's do 12 and it maybe we should have
Like 1205
Gwenevere Abriel: You can show up 12 but I just want to say, I might have been a little late because it's right after a group
Gwenevere Abriel: We could personally, we'll get started. It may be either 12 or 1205 okay
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And is there any medication bridge today.
Bianca: I know I have got it yesterday, cuz he said called Wednesday for it. So I should be good till
Bianca: Tomorrow, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right. Well, great. I will see you
Bianca: Tomorrow for groups and doctors are there. So just be you or
Gwenevere Abriel: No, I'm Dr. Reality there they'll be a doctor.
Bianca: Oh, I see. Okay. I'm just curious. Okay, so our group will be next Thursday at 12 total
Gwenevere Abriel: Um,
Gwenevere Abriel: So this is individual therapy. I just want to, this is called
Gwenevere Abriel: Visual therapy group is when we're meeting with the physician and your
Gwenevere Abriel: Digital therapy is 12 1205 on March 19
Bianca: next March. Okay, thank you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Last three bites of food so
Gwenevere Abriel: Um, how are you feeling
Adam Vallejos: I'm doing a little better. I guess just still
Adam Vallejos: During the process of all this. So this last weekend we had the viewing and then
Adam Vallejos: This weekend coming up.
Adam Vallejos: Is like it like the services and stuff.
Adam Vallejos: Guess getting a little better.
Gwenevere Abriel: How's your relationship with your mom.
Adam Vallejos: Guys, a little bit closer, I guess.
Adam Vallejos: We just been
Adam Vallejos: She just
Adam Vallejos: I don't know what it is all directly because she just hurting. I guess to that and I'm just
Adam Vallejos: Laying one they're really for her and I may Allah. She has other my other people, but the other people that are his family are like I said, just like
Adam Vallejos: Okay, she's the one that has to do everything, and they want
Adam Vallejos: I don't know. They're just acting weird about it but
Adam Vallejos: I don't know. I'm just
Adam Vallejos: Gonna just feel something a little bit closer.
Gwenevere Abriel: To a lot of pressure on her right now.
Yeah, yeah. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And how are your kids handling this change, they've got lots and lots of change going on. How are they adjusting to it.
Adam Vallejos: Are we getting I could see the game better. My older son and I had a parent teacher conference yesterday and
Adam Vallejos: She said, I guess, pretty much like since he's they came with me. They that he's been doing better in school and
Adam Vallejos: And I would, I don't know that she was saying that he has his days like some days you're going to school.
Adam Vallejos: Like with confidence and ready to
Adam Vallejos: Ready to learn. I guess pretty more in like he'll do and like some days, they'll just
Adam Vallejos: They'll be working on the same thing that he was doing good, the day before. But then he some goofy just
Adam Vallejos: Like, like you forgot everything. I don't know what other Overall though he's doing good in school.
Gwenevere Abriel: And in general, I have there been bouts for you, meaning there moments.
Gwenevere Abriel: Where you're crying and in distress or is that really just not part of the phase of grief that you're in.
Adam Vallejos: I haven't really done it.
Adam Vallejos: And the only time I really like is that the viewing. I didn't know but
Adam Vallejos: And I didn't want
Adam Vallejos: Because my brother, my mom didn't want to take my brother. So at first and then the day over the viewing. He wanted to go and I wasn't going to take my kids he they
Adam Vallejos: Were
Adam Vallejos: Taking them.
Adam Vallejos: And
Adam Vallejos: I don't know. First, it's my older son he
Adam Vallejos: Didn't know he started crying a lot like he was the one like that, cried the most out of my brother and my youngest son, but I don't know if it was just him realizing, like that's a dead body right there in front of him or
Adam Vallejos: Like, because at first when you walked up to him. I don't know if he were just like in shock or something because he didn't cry until we like sat down and then him seeing everybody else going up to him crying or
Adam Vallejos: And then my youngest son he
Adam Vallejos: He was just sitting there like I know like he was in shock or something. Cuz she
Adam Vallejos: Was just sitting there and then he didn't cry until like we go in the car and were leaving, and then he started crying.
Adam Vallejos: But they didn't really see me, I guess, crying because when I did. I got up and went to the bathroom. I don't know, and
Adam Vallejos: Yeah, so
Adam Vallejos: They had to know, but after that they've been. All right, they have
Adam Vallejos: We already talked about it and lights out that day but this weekend out to go to the services, but they're not seeing them.
Adam Vallejos: And then we went and got shirts made and stuff and
Adam Vallejos: I didn't really know him. That's why the only Madam, like, two times there will like
Adam Vallejos: It was now recently when he got us out of
Adam Vallejos: Prison or whatever.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's take a minute.
Gwenevere Abriel: And find a place so that your hands are free, see if we can get a place for this fun to land.
Alright.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's a little better.
Gwenevere Abriel: One of the reasons why I asked you, not only because I care. I want to know kind of how you're doing that kind of thing. But I also want to get a read on what
Gwenevere Abriel: We can and kind of can't do in here today.
Gwenevere Abriel: I want to develop a couple more pieces of imagery with you. You open to that.
Adam Vallejos: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: You put or you've done a protective figure have done a nurturing figure. You've done a wise figure that's kind of what I mean by imagery. Use your imagination used a little combination of memory and
Gwenevere Abriel: Actually, you had real people. You had grandma, my on to my grandpa, not a lot of imagination stuff but
Gwenevere Abriel: You can, and we're about to do a little bit more. That will be very much dependent on your imagination. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So what I want to develop right now are me see one to two things. The first one, and you may have done this in group and it just didn't get noted in here was the emotional container.
Gwenevere Abriel: And that's if you're feeling something kind of heavy, maybe even in here. You and I start to talk about something. Maybe it makes you sad or makes you scared or angry. You don't really feel like dealing with it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Instead of, you know, how you went to the bathroom to cry. This would be taking whatever you're going through and sort of metaphorically symbolically putting it in the container.
Gwenevere Abriel: So right now out. And what I'd like you to do is think about an emotional container and it doesn't exist because it's a made up thing. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I want you to think about something that's big enough and strong enough to hold all of your emotional stuff. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: For some people, I'll give you some examples just to kind of get the brainstorm going. It could be anything you want. Actually, you have one I've seen it. I just kind of control. It just now. It was like a wasn't it like a lock it. I could picture that you drew it for me.
Gwenevere Abriel: I just got it. I don't know. See if you can describe that for me because I need to type it up. He drew it
Gwenevere Abriel: Was like square and it had this like had this lock in the kind of top part but describe that for me.
Adam Vallejos: Yeah, just
Adam Vallejos: Like you love being
Gwenevere Abriel: What's the, what's the container.
Adam Vallejos: Like what is it I'm thinking, oh,
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. What is it I can I just wrote the word keylock which is. That's only the last part. I want to know what the containers.
Adam Vallejos: Don't know what a key lucky as me I should look that up. It is a container me to see what's your
Adam Vallejos: Oh, no.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's, that's just a locking system right
Adam Vallejos: Yeah.
Adam Vallejos: I don't know container could just be like,
Adam Vallejos: Anything. There's the box that I can live with that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, well, how big is it
Adam Vallejos: Little bit of metal.
Gwenevere Abriel: wood and metal
Gwenevere Abriel: Is it painted anything you notice, maybe on the outside or inside
Adam Vallejos: Inside
Gwenevere Abriel: On the inside or outside, or both.
Gwenevere Abriel: Inside and
Outside
Gwenevere Abriel: It's about the size of the shoe box and you use a key lock to kind of close it up. Okay, so we might use that at some point.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you're welcome to also use it when you're feeling some strong emotion you want to get some distance from it. That's one way to sort of use your brain.
Gwenevere Abriel: In a way to compartmentalize I don't feel like dealing with this right now can kind of picture. How would I get it in the box. But I toss it in there like a basketball. Would I place it in generally like hammered in
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, just you get into that imagery and put it in there.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then we kind of picture this distancing metaphor and just feel free to MIND ME IF WE'VE DONE THIS BEFORE ALL can try and find another note it just didn't make its way into this one.
Gwenevere Abriel: Did we already developed a distancing metaphor.
Adam Vallejos: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, well, we'll do it. I like this one. This one's great
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll give you some examples and that that will get your brain kind of brainstorming. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So for some people it's like this. It's like they're standing on a riverbank and they're sort of surrounded by
Gwenevere Abriel: A protective figure nurturing quality and a wise quality and they're just sort of sitting on the riverbank are standing on the riverbank and what they picture on down the river is this leaf that's moving further and further and further away. And on that leaf is a memory.
Gwenevere Abriel: The metaphor is a leaf floating further and further away on a river.
Gwenevere Abriel: For some people it's a helium balloon, you kind of take this little message and they stick it in there and they tie it up tight and kind of takes off slowly sort of floats up into the atmosphere until you can't see it anymore.
Adam Vallejos: That's
Gwenevere Abriel: Missing metaphor. You could also be a train right that car.
Gwenevere Abriel: That you put maybe even the box you even put your container on it and you're like, Okay, you're out of here.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you could see this train in your mind, your mind signs moving further and further away you can hear, click, click, click, click, click, click, click, click, click, and away goes further and further, further that train until you can't even see it anymore, certainly can't hear it anymore.
Gwenevere Abriel: Some people. It's a rocket ship. Like, it takes off really fast, like, get out of here and it goes off and you can't see it.
Gwenevere Abriel: So this was a few of them for you. When you think of, let's say you're having a negative emotion and you want. Or maybe it's a memory or it's a thought or it's a belief and you want to get some distance from it what might be a metaphor that we might use
Adam Vallejos: I would use like
Adam Vallejos: Yours a bottle and throwing it into those
Gwenevere Abriel: Take it away in the Ocean, ocean,
Take
Gwenevere Abriel: Seem like it's been taken away quickly. Slowly, sort of in between.
Lonely
Gwenevere Abriel: So it seemed kind of a slow distancing. Okay. Very nice.
Gwenevere Abriel: So just let me know if some of these things are distressing for you. He'll come to me in. Okay. Um, I want to start to build this inventory of subjective unit of distress with you and get a few history stories.
Gwenevere Abriel: From right and zero to 100 on the subjective unit of distress. I'm gonna show it to you so you can see what I'm doing.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right in here, see this stuff.
Gwenevere Abriel: Develop subjective unit of distress. So it's like a thermometer.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's say we're at zero. We are relaxed.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, that would be able to zero. My muscles are relaxed. I'm my mind is at ease way up here at 100 would be
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, my children dying. I mean, that would just be like too much right
Gwenevere Abriel: Canada. Okay. So you get the idea that a thermometer is is is this is registering how distressing an event is how distressing an emotion, the body or a belief.
Gwenevere Abriel: All you need to do here is I'm just going to ask you right at that 50 range, it's not completely terrifying up here.
Gwenevere Abriel: This is the fight or flight response up here. This is the worst scariest thing most upsetting thing that's ever happened to you up here at 100. No, we don't want that one.
Gwenevere Abriel: You just chill relaxed and kind of content. No, we don't want that one. We want in the middle. It's a little activating which means a little upsetting like to hear an event that happened to you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or a memory or something that you think of that was a little distressing. But you were still able to reason and think
Gwenevere Abriel: Can you tell me a you take your time, don't rush. But, see if you can think of a timer was really upsetting. It's about a 50 wasn't the worst thing and you could still think through and problem solve.
Gwenevere Abriel: if something else comes up, I can move it to a higher number and then we'll come back to 50 don't worry about what are you thinking about right now. What's coming up for you.
Adam Vallejos: As my guest. The first time when I went when I went to like to Joe for some
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, and what was the predominant emotion there. You're the boss is getting you there. It's like what right
Adam Vallejos: I was thinking like
Adam Vallejos: 16 or 17 again. Yeah. Okay. So, thinking I can move that one up.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, speaking of the word thinking, what were you thinking about when you were heading over there or when you actually locked in.
Adam Vallejos: That I was
Adam Vallejos: That I was nervous and scared and for the first time, because I didn't know what it was really like
Adam Vallejos: But that I knew that I could
Adam Vallejos: Show them.
Yeah, right.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you were nervous and scared, but what everybody saw what do you think people saw on the exterior of the mask that you had to wear inside the jail to survive in there.
Adam Vallejos: I wasn't really like
Adam Vallejos: Are we just
Adam Vallejos: Really just being myself I was in like kind act or hard like I didn't
Adam Vallejos: Know anybody in there. You know me. Now I just acting like myself, but not like
Adam Vallejos: How I was really feeling an inside scared and nervous or whatever. Just, I was just having to be chill, I guess, like if I did it before something
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. All right. Yeah. Like there's nothing better thing than here, whatever. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And the belief about yourself at the time.
Gwenevere Abriel: I heard one belief. Let me just check and see if this is the core target that I want to work with the belief about yourself while you were in there, was it I can't show
Gwenevere Abriel: Who I am, I can't show that I'm scared. I can't show fear. It may not be that one. That might be something else. Do you remember what you believed about yourself during that period of time in jail.
Adam Vallejos: Was it was probably then I just kidding.
Adam Vallejos: Show.
Adam Vallejos: What I was
Adam Vallejos: Really feeling
Gwenevere Abriel: And what do you think of the fact that you couldn't show how you're really feeling
Adam Vallejos: It was
Adam Vallejos: And I guess it made it kind of veteran, I guess it's time to show that I was here just to make it seem like I
Adam Vallejos: Was just cool because another thing was already because if I
Adam Vallejos: Like the week one. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So it was what we would call adaptive you adapted to the environment and it sounds like it worked. So you weren't targeted.
Gwenevere Abriel: It makes sense.
Gwenevere Abriel: Have you ever used this approach outside of jail.
Adam Vallejos: Yeah, I guess so, like, like I said, like in school and
Adam Vallejos: Whenever I whenever I was that I would just
Adam Vallejos: I was like, mostly in like middle school.
Adam Vallejos: I was always every day I would pretty much. I don't know why though it's like it because I wasn't getting like bullied or anything. I had friends and were just some
Adam Vallejos: Nervousness, that would come in the morning and I would always like throw up every morning there for like half the year and have sixth grade and then
Adam Vallejos: When I would go to school, I would be nervous and stuff, but I would just show like
Adam Vallejos: Everything was all right. But I never like knew why I would feel that way because like I said I was a nobody was like bullying me or I was born. Like, I don't know, I think it was just
Adam Vallejos: Being in class, I don't know, like how I didn't
Like
Adam Vallejos: Because in that and then middle school, you have like different classes. So always like in
Adam Vallejos: In like language arts or something we would always have to read
Adam Vallejos: Aloud and that's when
Adam Vallejos: I would have to talk in front and like the whole class that was the thing that would, but I wouldn't
Adam Vallejos: I was nervous or whatever. I would just go up there and do it like I was
Adam Vallejos: Yeah.
Adam Vallejos: But then in high school. I didn't know that all changed because then I
Adam Vallejos: Got like
Adam Vallejos: A lot more friends and like I didn't know I was like, I wouldn't say I was like popular nothing night but like
Adam Vallejos: I was, I have like a lot of friends and
Adam Vallejos: In high school, you don't. I guess really like present or you have to talk in
Adam Vallejos: Class. I've known
Gwenevere Abriel: That sixth grade year was a really tough one. There was morning vomiting. And really, and you kind of have said that before that it's really kind of a fear of maybe someone making fun of you somehow possibly about the reading maybe
Adam Vallejos: Yeah. Or yeah, just whatever we had to do in front of the class.
Adam Vallejos: Yeah them.
Adam Vallejos: We are making phone calls like that never happened. That's why it never
Adam Vallejos: Matter. I don't know why it just something in my head that if I
Adam Vallejos: Were to mess up or something, then I guess I could say what they were thinking telling me what what they were thinking about me.
Gwenevere Abriel: So finish that sentence. If I were to mess up, what would happen.
Adam Vallejos: Then I would
Adam Vallejos: Be
Adam Vallejos: Messed up presenting in front of the class. I would just have
Adam Vallejos: I don't know, some kind of hear that they were
Adam Vallejos: Talking to their friends behind my back about what I did wrong.
Gwenevere Abriel: Were you doing that to other people during that like in sixth grade, fifth grade.
Gwenevere Abriel: During that time, I'm actually not only just that time try to go back even further and see if you can find the earliest age where you were afraid to make a mistake because somebody right might misunderstand you
Gwenevere Abriel: Someone might spread a rumor, someone might have an form an opinion of you and negative opinion, try to catch the earliest age. If you can find that the earliest age where the same thing you're describing
Gwenevere Abriel: What's going on, can be in any part of your life if you can recall back to the most intense earliest stage.
Adam Vallejos: I don't know. I was just at all I could think of is starting sixth grade, like in elementary school and stuff but
Adam Vallejos: I
Adam Vallejos: I remember having to in like fifth grade, I remember having to
Adam Vallejos: Like, do a presentation thing but
Adam Vallejos: I like knew when I did it. Good. So like when I went to present it to the class. I knew what I was saying, talking about
Adam Vallejos: And I didn't have that
Adam Vallejos: That feeling
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, there were some I worked hard at this I know what I'm talking about. And there was more confidence there.
Adam Vallejos: Yeah, yeah. So I would just say sixth grade still is just when I would start feeling when I started feeling that we
Gwenevere Abriel: Are pretty critical age item that's when we start to care more about what our peers think about us less about what our parents thing we really care. We want to not stand out. We want to look like them talk like them. It's this weird middle school nightmare.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you're not alone in that that experience. And that's pretty pretty typical doesn't make it right. Good. But it is typical of people's experience in middle school is a lot of pressure.
Gwenevere Abriel: What was your home life like during that time period.
Gwenevere Abriel: Background
Adam Vallejos: It was good. I that's when I still lived with my grandparents and
Adam Vallejos: There was nothing really
Adam Vallejos: crazy going on because I live my mom. I mean, she was in and out, like she would come visit some time, but
Adam Vallejos: Everything was good at home until eighth grade. And then, when will they great summer and I had to go to high school or whatever, that's when I
Adam Vallejos: Finally, moved with my mom because my grandparents.
Adam Vallejos: Were getting too old and yeah and but
Adam Vallejos: Everything was good. I guess I was my was spoil the Higher Self and grew and
Adam Vallejos: I was only one like going kids will my cousin, he would always come to me but
Adam Vallejos: I would just only
Adam Vallejos: The only child. So I don't know. I got everything I want one, everything is good.
Gwenevere Abriel: Remember kind of be unhappy during that time when you were home.
Adam Vallejos: Yeah.
Adam Vallejos: My grandma.
Adam Vallejos: My grandma had passed away. I guess in ninth.
Adam Vallejos: Grade. And then I was only only had my own one grandma. That was taking care of me and then
Adam Vallejos: Everybody after that, like after my grandpa. And my grandma died down he had
Adam Vallejos: My her daughter was my grandma's. Well, what
Adam Vallejos: She
Adam Vallejos: That's when I guess like everybody started moving into the house.
Adam Vallejos: And like my aunt. She had moved into the house and then
Adam Vallejos: The eighth grade year, I remember my mom moved into the house to
Adam Vallejos: And then that's when my grandma wasn't doing good. And then she
Adam Vallejos: We had to sell that. I don't know why they sold those, but they did.
Adam Vallejos: Because it was their house.
Adam Vallejos: And then they to my ad. I had moved into apartment and took my grandma with your but like she was gone, like she couldn't even talk. She didn't
Adam Vallejos: Like even like member to me, I guess, but
Adam Vallejos: That's when I started going, I guess, seven. The end of seventh grade, eighth grade is like when everything started falling apart.
Gwenevere Abriel: Why you weren't living with your mother.
Adam Vallejos: She was doing her own thing that since I was three years old, she just gave me to my grandma She just was
Adam Vallejos: Out living her life. I guess just partying and doing what she wanted.
Gwenevere Abriel: And to this day that you haven't gotten like a moment where you've really talked with your mom about that time.
Adam Vallejos: Show me.
Adam Vallejos: Show me bring that up whenever she's like she don't drink a lot, but when she does like
Adam Vallejos: For all the days and so she'll get all drunk and then
Adam Vallejos: She'll just start bringing that up link saying that she sorry, and she know she wasn't there. I mean, but
Adam Vallejos: Like other than that she won't. We don't talk about it.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's hard to take the credibility when someone's doing it right when they're drinking, but talking about how this is what happened when they were drinking
Gwenevere Abriel: Right yeah I got it.
Adam Vallejos: But like, I don't know, I, she asked you to tell me that
Adam Vallejos: You wanted the best life for me. And she knows she couldn't do it. He knew my grandmother would take care of me and so
Adam Vallejos: Which they did and they took really good care of me and and
Adam Vallejos: I couldn't ask for better
Adam Vallejos: Years from three to 14 or whatever but
Gwenevere Abriel: You've really got some gratitude for those
Gwenevere Abriel: That treatment from them. I can, I can really hear that a lot of you felt their love and support that's that's very clear, very, very grateful.
Gwenevere Abriel: There is a thing to
Gwenevere Abriel: Our biology around our mother and father
Gwenevere Abriel: So don't be surprised if it happens to you, too.
Gwenevere Abriel: We sort of biologically
Gwenevere Abriel: Want Our mother and father to love us.
Gwenevere Abriel: And kind of the way we're wired.
Gwenevere Abriel: And we care a lot even unconsciously about what they think about us and
Gwenevere Abriel: I know just now, you were saying, Shelly kind of processes. This stuff when she's, she's drinking
Gwenevere Abriel: But between you and I, right, if, if we say, well, when she is saying she sorry I'm sorry I wasn't there for you. And she call it all that shit right doesn't sound like you, you tell me if I'm wrong. Do you believe
Gwenevere Abriel: Her apology that she sorry she wasn't there for you.
Adam Vallejos: Know, kinda. I do.
Adam Vallejos: I know she probably wishes she could have done better and stuff but
Adam Vallejos: It's just
Adam Vallejos: Now that I have been living with her since. Well, since I was 14 or whatever, and she never really
Adam Vallejos: I still can take care of my own. I still took care of myself then like she actually put a roof over my head and how to food and stuff for me but like
Adam Vallejos: I was still the one
Adam Vallejos: Pretty much taken care of me so
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you were young, you aren't right. You are 29 your brain finished its development. About two years ago. You're just now basically an adult, you were taking care yourself at a very young age.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm imagining it might have been nice to have someone there to talk you through the risk that some of the things that she got involved in
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't know.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is there an area that seems like it was really clear would have been nice to have mom there.
Adam Vallejos: I guess.
Adam Vallejos: During those
Adam Vallejos: Middle school years, I guess.
Adam Vallejos: Because like
Adam Vallejos: I guess, mostly, I guess my dad, I guess would be more on my middle school years to feel. I never really have like
Adam Vallejos: A male figure in my life, my uncle was doing but he wasn't
Adam Vallejos: He wasn't like
Adam Vallejos: Doing good for himself either really as a time. He was an alcoholic to and stuff like what
Adam Vallejos: He was like Dhoni
Adam Vallejos: MLM my life at that time and then
Adam Vallejos: Because my dad was already in prison. But even when my dad was out he was I never seen him anyway.
Adam Vallejos: And
Adam Vallejos: I should just
Adam Vallejos: Most young during like the sixth, seventh grade, I wish. Both of my parents would have been there more
Gwenevere Abriel: How do you think that's had an impact on you today, like I said, been there, I wonder, even if it's a curiosity how you might be a little different today.
Adam Vallejos: You know,
Adam Vallejos: They were there. Mark telling me.
Adam Vallejos: What they had already been through, and what
Adam Vallejos: I could have my dad was a heroin addict to and here I had him. They're telling me.
Adam Vallejos: I knew it was bad. Yeah, but I didn't know like
Adam Vallejos: At that time when I started doing it I i think if you were there to come out and never done it in the first place, then I think I like for the
Adam Vallejos: Different or like if I didn't
Adam Vallejos: Or I would enter started selling drugs in
Adam Vallejos: Like that fed case or whatever. So
Adam Vallejos: I think my life would have been different if I just had him.
Adam Vallejos: There to tell me
Gwenevere Abriel: That's interesting. I mean, there's plenty of kids and you've met them that you can tell a kid. Anything you want, we can role model. The best healthiest lifestyle and a child still going to make their own decisions, but
Gwenevere Abriel: You think you would have seen
Adam Vallejos: Like
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I had said, Listen, son. Take a look at my life I've lost years of it in prison and health. I've got, you know, I don't know, whatever got hep C or, you know, I've lost years of my life. I haven't watched you grow up.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know drugs are sort of a short term solution.
Gwenevere Abriel: For a problem that can be solved in a different way. And let me teach you those skills. So if he had been able to do that with you. You think you would have really respected what he had to say. And you wouldn't have done what he was doing.
Adam Vallejos: Yeah, I think so. Yeah.
Adam Vallejos: Yeah, at least.
Adam Vallejos: In order to get to
Adam Vallejos: Like where I had to kill like selling how I was where I had the feds get on on me and I mean like I wouldn't, I don't think I will.
Adam Vallejos: Even messed around with heroin open. Yeah, to tell me because like I didn't know like they could, like, I, I didn't really know my dad was on
Adam Vallejos: Heroin, I didn't even know heroin was until
Adam Vallejos: Like high school and stuff and then
Adam Vallejos: That's when I found out that that's why he was in prison for 17 years because he was
Adam Vallejos: Getting needed money to support his habit and he just did a grip of armed robberies.
Adam Vallejos: And yeah, I just think
Adam Vallejos: If he was there more time.
Adam Vallejos: I would never touch.
Gwenevere Abriel: Talk with your kids are you pretty open about why you yourself have used or like just curious.
Adam Vallejos: I tell him.
Adam Vallejos: Like why because yes about modern medicine, when I take the Suboxone
Adam Vallejos: And
Adam Vallejos: I just tell them it's just
Adam Vallejos: Because something I was doing bad
Adam Vallejos: I just
Adam Vallejos: I just don't want him to do that to do any kind of drug on, I don't know, I just haven't really talked to him about it but
Adam Vallejos: When he asked when I take my toolbox hundred every time.
Adam Vallejos: I just say it was because
Adam Vallejos: A bad thing that I was doing that now I need to take this medicine for a while to get better and
Adam Vallejos: Like understand, but I just don't want to.
Adam Vallejos: Do any kind of intro, get on
Gwenevere Abriel: So Adam when you know why you did it to begin with. It's going to be a lot easier for you to get more detail to your children because that answer. I did it because I did a bad thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: Teenagers will see right through that.
Adam Vallejos: Yeah, and I don't even know why.
Adam Vallejos: I did it to begin with, is because
Adam Vallejos: A friend of mine had and he had a tear in my dad didn't
Adam Vallejos: Because I was already like I was trying pills and I like that feeling of pills. I wasn't doing pills all crazy like once and allowed come across a pill and do it and then
Adam Vallejos: One day, one of my friends had everyone. Also, and I got any venting to be like that. So my dad was addicted to. I didn't think about getting addicted.
Adam Vallejos: And I did right away because I do like that.
Adam Vallejos: Down and feeling and
Adam Vallejos: Yeah, I just did it because somebody has
Gwenevere Abriel: So just imagine it's your son, it's going to see through
Gwenevere Abriel: So if you need motivation to really work hard at the self reflection and really understand what was going on at the time that it made sense for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: To basically self medicate, there was something going on where it just made sense to want that numbness
Gwenevere Abriel: To go take a depressant that brings heart rate down, it means you don't have to feel
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: When you understand that more and that's what our discussions are about is really trying to uncover that piece.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to feel more confident about how to teach your son about how to live his life in a healthy way.
Adam Vallejos: Does that make sense.
Gwenevere Abriel: I mean, even for now. If you can't find your own motivation to do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Number one, you're showing up in here. You're showing up anyway. I know it's like probably just want to have it up on our feet and go on with your day. But you, you are changing are making changes even so subtle. When you talk about these difficult things with me.
Gwenevere Abriel: But just as you hear your own self, say if someone said, Oh, son. Don't worry about these, you know, it's, I did something bad and
Gwenevere Abriel: Don't worry about it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now that might have been nothing
Adam Vallejos: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, that I'm going to keep you from the peer pressure of wanting to have friends be like everybody else.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right to address insecurities. I mean, that's what these substances can do if people like family. Mom, Dad, grandparents aren't telling you
Gwenevere Abriel: This is what you say to people when they say, go do something unhealthy gets cool if a kid isn't ready. They don't believe that the body is a vessel of health and we only put healthy things in it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Then it's only about the impulsive moment.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's just the way our brains are, they're not fully developed. We don't have that. Is this good is this bad part of our brain developed yet not at 13 techno
Gwenevere Abriel: You didn't have it till literally two years ago.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So it's coming on board now.
Gwenevere Abriel: So this discovery of really working hard to understand the context of what was going on in your life did it made sense to want to numb out
Gwenevere Abriel: Because it isn't the same for everybody. For some people, they're like, I hate the feeling of numbness, I want to be sharp
Gwenevere Abriel: I want to be able to do this, this, this, and this, right. Not everybody's experiences, the same as yours in middle school, but it was something's going on. Pretty important things going on in middle school.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. And in high school.
Gwenevere Abriel: It just made sense. I want to not feel what I'm feeling I'm going to feel this downer. I like this down, or I don't want to feel this. I want a downer. The more you know what was going on.
Gwenevere Abriel: The more empowered, you're going to be not only for your own recovery. But wait, as a parent, to be able to teach. Hey, man.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're feeling insecure, you feel kind of slight stupid, you know, I mean like everybody look you look around like looks like everybody already knows everything, like what is that
Gwenevere Abriel: It's not, of course, because everybody's clueless. But it just looks like it, son. This is what you think this is what you do you hold on yourself.
Gwenevere Abriel: Don't betray yourself. Don't let go. Don't do something that's outside of our core values here in this House, your confidence around that. It's just going to be so much bigger. Once you know why you did what you did.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. All right. Well, you worked hard today and let's schedule another time to meet that works for you and just remind me any big changes around your work schedule that we need to
Adam Vallejos: Still keep this time. If not,
Adam Vallejos: Then
Adam Vallejos: When today.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, maybe Wednesday see
Gwenevere Abriel: Wednesday at nine in the morning. Can you get up, put some water on your face. Are you busy right then.
Adam Vallejos: Should be airing
Gwenevere Abriel: And on that day. Can you make a note in your phone.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's do some
Exercises
Gwenevere Abriel: He did in a chair and grab
Gwenevere Abriel: Grab a couple of, I don't know that we're going to do the activity. But, see if you can grab a couple of containers and kind of put them right outside the phone so it would look like this.
Gwenevere Abriel: On the desk, you'd have a phone sitting here kind of propped up with books or something. So right like that and then next to it would be a couple of tall containers that are about the same height.
Gwenevere Abriel: You won't be doing anything with them, except if we do the activity, you'd be looking at them. It's an activity. I don't know if we're going to end up doing it, but I wanted to see, see if we can do a little
Gwenevere Abriel: preparation phase. Okay.
Adam Vallejos: All right.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, so we are set now for, I'll see you on Tuesday. Do I need to send any slack message to the doctor, do you have enough medicine to get you all the way to Tuesday.
Adam Vallejos: Yeah. Pretty sure she she sent it yesterday. So
Adam Vallejos: I
Gwenevere Abriel: Counted count count it. You don't want to be left over the weekend, not having something you need right so make sure you
Adam Vallejos: All right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah okay all right out of my will see you Tuesday morning. Be good to you. Okay.
Adam Vallejos: Right. All right, bye.